We have only 20 minutes with you and we want to really focus on intellectual property and
copyright legislation. If you would like to start with some opening remarks, if you keep
them brief so that members get enough time to ask questions, that would be really helpful.
Thank you. So, Chair, members of the committee, thanks for the opportunity to speak today.
I'll start maybe with why this conversation matters to us. For us, intellectual property
is how New Zealand turns great science into real world impact. I think as every time
I've been to a select committee, we've brought some of that real world impact with us to
show you. So, yeah, we knew you'd expect morning tea. So, we've brought some snapples
for you, some that are not commercially available. So, for us, it's not theory.
It's actually what we do every day. And I love the fact that we're having select
committee discussions around intellectual property. I think it's great and it's
always timely. For us, that's where great ideas meet real world impact and create
value for New Zealand and in a lot of cases beyond that. So, I'll give a couple of
practical views of how IP works for us on the ground. And as I said, we've brought
some intellectual property with us today because while IP has legal frameworks,
patents, plant variety rights, great innovation and complex multi-jurisdictional
alignment, it's quite often something you can hold and in this case, eat. So, I'll
give you a bit of a sense of scale. So, over the last decade for the bio
economy sciences to shoot our royalty revenues have grown from around 27
million to this year forecast just over $100 million. That makes us the
largest royalties earner in the country. Great for us as an organisation that's
all re-invested in science but actually the thing that's great for New Zealand is
those royalties only come off the back of commercial success. So, that's one
of the things we really like about the royalties. So, when you think of us,
obviously, we've had flat to declining government investment. So, this is a
way to keep investment going back into science, which is excellent. So, look,
our model is quite simple but really deliberate. We invest in long-term
science. We develop intellectual property. We partner with industry incubators.
We create new products and in some cases companies generate royalties, equity
and returns and then in our case, we invest those back into the next
generation of the same thing. So, we do it across a range of areas,
licensing, joint ventures, startups and we've got a few examples of
research for equity models as well. So, one of the things we quite enjoy
is the flexibility that we have to be able to take different approaches
because there's no one size fits all for us. So, historically, in our case,
we've had a lot of commercialisation that's been science sort of push,
which is great. We think there's absolutely a place for that to
continue but we are starting to evolve where we're increasingly
balancing that towards being more market poll as well. So, what are the
things people are asking for? What are the things industry investors,
entrepreneurs are asking for? How does science connect in with that
to make their great ideas even better and more sticky? So, the idea is to
sort of move from alongside sort of saying, what can we do with our
sciences? What problems does the world need solved and how can our
science help? So, one of the things I guess as we talk around things like
policy and I've touched on this already is just cautioning on making
things too rigid. So, as I said, the flexibility that we've had has
been excellent. We've had everything from spin outs research for
equity. We've had spin outs that we've kept equity. So, we've been on
the cap table for. We've had spin outs where we haven't. We've had
spin outs where founders have gone out of the Institute into the
new start-up. We've had ones where they haven't. All of those
have worked well for us. And when you look at intellectual
property, there's quite a spectrum. So, if you think of sort of
some of the shorter cycle innovation, a new software tool,
a new device, they're quite often built by quite a discrete team,
a few people that rolls out. Then you look at the apples that we'll
share in a second. Those are 15, 20, 25-year breeding programs
with potentially 50 people involved. Then there's post-harvest
support, pest and pathogen management, and sometimes
support and market. So, if we apply the rules to both, we run
the risk of actually creating some challenges. So, Roger,
can get that apple out somehow. So, what you're seeing here is
intellectual property in the flesh. These are not commercial. So,
I know whenever I've come to select committee before, people
have sort of said, what's the next generation? I think, Fumzie,
you've asked that a few times. This is the next generation.
These are red-fleshed apples. These are not commercial.
We've purposefully taken the seeds out because, IP. It's
not that we don't trust you. But intellectual property needs
to be protected. So, these are two different types. They're in
train. You might have seen we launched alongside a partner last
year, FizzApple, which is also red-fleshed apple. So, for us,
we've developed a DNA marker that allows sort of baby seedlings
to be tested early, which means, in our case, 100% of those
trees planted in our red-fleshed breeding programs are
red-fleshed types because it's not always the way. So, even
if you planted the seed, there's no guarantee you'd
actually get that apple. So, for us, if you look at the
history, you know, 1998, we did the first generation of crosses
for a red-fleshed apple, second generation in 2004, third
generation in 2011, and then last year, launched Fizz
alongside a partner. These are the next ones that are
coming through. Why red-fleshed? High anthocyanins, so
antioxidants, also good novelty, and hopefully, as you're
tasting as they go around, they taste good, which is
quite important for food that you eat. So, last year was the
first planting. So, about 10 tonnes were produced last year
of the Fizz. About 54 tonnes expected this year from Hawkes Bay
and Nelson. So, this is intellectual property coming
to life, but with a lot of people involved. So, behind
this is genetics, plant variety rights, trademarks,
global licensing agreements. So, in our case, it's, you know,
for a lot of things, it's not one invention, it's a layered
system of IPV. It only works because we've had long-term
investment, stable ownership, and flexible commercial
models. So, we see this right across what we do. So, plant
varieties, as we've touched on, a small number of
cultivars can generate large returns for New Zealand over
decades. And then we have startups like CentiumBio, that's
just had a good capital raise recently. With 15 years of
research turned into a venture-backed company, the
founder went along with that. It's actually still housed
in our Mount Albert facility. So, we're closely
connected into it, and we still sit on the cap table
for it. We've got other ones like Callocurb, which is
using hops extracts to help with diet sort of suppression, to
help with weight loss, to compete with things like
OZEMPIC, but more naturally. So, in that case, we have
patents, trademarks, clinical science, and research
for equity that we all connect into that. So, I guess
one of the things we're really proud of is that
we're already driving towards that balance that's
being talked about. So, the ability, in some cases,
for the scientists to actually go out and
commercialise their IP, and in the other cases, where
there's a big group of people for that IP to be
commercialised, and that royalty revenue to come back
in and actually fund future science. So, that's a big
part of what we do. So, for us, I guess it's really
maintaining that flexibility, that ability to be
part of that. So, probably three sort of key messages.
We do have a system that works pretty well today.
And I think with the merger of the BSI, the ability
for us to take the learnings from one into the four
that have come together is really quite strong.
There's clear value. There's billions of dollars.
You might have seen recently, NV Apple was now a
billion dollar global Apple variety, developed out of
a CRI. And the second one is the strength of that
system is its flexibility. So, trying to not have
one size fits all and constrain things. And
thirdly for us, opportunity is to sort of just
make sure we strengthen that balance with the
right settings. So, ultimately, we create more
companies, more impact and more investment over
time. So, in our case, intellectual property
isn't just something we manage. It's something
that builds New Zealand's future. And in our case,
also, pretty good apples. So, thank you and
happy to take any questions. Thank you. Your
intellectual property does test really well.
That's always important when it's food.
And first question from Dr David Wilson.
You've said all the right things for me.
I've got Mark and Paul, we're a science
person trying to bring those two things together.
That's fantastic. I just interested in a couple
of the mechanisms here because in terms of
product development and business development,
that sort of thing. IP in one hand is actually
protecting something. Correct. And on the other
hand, we also talked about research in
exchange for equity. And I'm interested in the
mechanism for that and how that's working.
And also, if we're protecting IP, how do we
actually encourage tech fusion across our
system in New Zealand still protect it?
Yes, there's probably two parts to that.
Maybe if I touch on the research for equity,
but Richard, if you want to talk about how we
still allow sharing of knowledge without losing
the IP, if there's anything to add. So, maybe
a good example of research for equity.
I don't think I'll be sharing anything
that's too confidential. So, CallaCurb is a
great example. CallaCurb was designed out of
the science system. It was taking a
Marisate, which is a bit of extract from
hops and finding that they did have
appetites of recent properties. It goes in
a capsule. It's not something you can eat.
It's got a pretty, it's a bit of extract.
Very. And so, we said we wouldn't be the
right people to take that to market.
We put that out and someone picked that up.
That then became the company that is CallaCurb.
We had a small royalty arrangement as part
of that and they said, actually, we really
value the work you can do in clinical
science linked to this. We've got some
funding. So, we can pay for some of the
work, but actually, would you be interested
in doing research for equity at the same time?
So, we said, great, we'll take some of the
cash back in, but then we'll also
co-invest with some of our own people and
do the clinical research. We've actually
got someone who speaks at international
conferences alongside their chief
executive still today and we own, I think
it's technically 4.9% or thereabouts of
that company, which is the research for
equity. So, it's kind of almost passive.
Yeah, correct. Yeah. So, we're not, we're
on the cap table because we believe in
the product and we believe it's something
that can come back. So, we look at all
those on a case-by-case basis and we've
got another one which I can't share the
details of, but we've been approached
from someone that we didn't start the IP.
They've started something. They've gone,
actually, we think you could really help
us supercharge this. Would you be
interested in doing more and take a
research for equity position which we're
exploring today? Richard, do you want to
talk about how we protect IP and still
connected? Sure. So, you know, obviously
our research is and we want to disseminate
information where that's appropriate as
widely as possible. For a number of
reasons. The name one is for the
individual reputation of the researchers
but also the organisation as a whole.
So, we attract more business and
collaborations in. So, we have to
balance that when knowledge is
briefly shared, like through
publications or any other kind of
mechanism. So, we have a process where
both the science leadership and also
commercial make those decisions about
which pieces of information are best
shared widely, which others are more
appropriate for protection of IP. So,
that's a constant process.
Supplementary. You know, New Zealand has
got a bit of a problem hasn't it in
terms of keeping and owning our
specialisations and intellectual property
because we grow these firms and they
leave or they get bought. And as a
result, I think over the last 20, 30,
even 50 years, we had a bit of a
hollowing out. So, if we're looking
at our whole scale of businesses, the
medium-sized ones, it's like hollowed
out. We got lots of smalls, we got a
few bigs and not as many mediums and
I'm really interested into this and
the stickiness of those medium-sized
enterprises for the New Zealand economy.
So, we own them and we turn them
into large businesses.
Yeah, look, one probably good thing
I'd say is there's been a group of us
that have been connecting for, I don't
know, five or six months now, trying to
exactly discuss this challenge. How do
we get not just start-up investment
in, but that investment that gets you
through the valley of death and get
something started. Obviously, you know,
New Zealand, we do exceptionally well on
the global stage, but we're small.
I mean, our consumer base is small,
right? And so the opportunity to
actually grow companies is quite often
international, but obviously we'd like
them to still be based in New Zealand
or directed out of New Zealand. So, how
we do that, how we bring investment
into New Zealand and actually
recognise that New Zealand is the
right place to continue to grow
these things is definitely a challenge.
I don't know, I think we've got the
answer, but it is something we're
trying to work alongside the system
to say how do we do this. Things like
apples and kiwi fruit and some of those
areas are quite different because we
do have a natural advantage. We grow
exceptionally good
climate reproduction in New Zealand, and
so the IP for those does both stay
here and move around the world. So,
NV, you might know the number, but I
think it's 60% of NV or more
planting is international, 40%
locally, but IP is still held locally.
It's controlled.
Okay, next question.
Thank you. Thanks for being with us.
I have a question about our
international arrangements,
particularly the UK and European
trade deals, which include four
New Zealand, some obligations around
our food system and the IP within it
and regional indicators.
How are we progressing those
obligations domestically for our
exporters? What's your role in
working with exporters to understand
those things? Our IP on the world
stage for some of those plants that
we hold dear to ourselves like
Manuka, what's your role in making
sure that we uphold our
international obligations, but also
get the best deal for Kiwis?
Yeah, great question. I can maybe
lean into some of that. So,
one of the good things about things
like plant varieties rights is that
there's a generally a global
approach to those. So, they're
filed in multiple countries,
which helps and, you know,
like effectively a patent for plants
at the risk of really oversimplifying
it. So, the ability to protect
those you've seen in China, for
example, where things have been
pulled back out as a result of
illegal plantings.
If you look at the,
might be a sensitive topic at the
moment, but the India Free Trade
Agreement, which we're in favour of,
that also sort of talks around
the opportunities for us to help
improve Kiwifruit quality in India.
That's not about us necessarily
planting our varieties there.
If Zespri want to do that over time,
we'd support them, but that's a
market facing decision.
From a science perspective, we
think we can help move people out
of poverty by helping with quality,
with pest and pathogen management,
with productivity. So, those are
the kinds of things that we work
quite strongly in.
I used to be in the dairy industry
and it was the same with the
support we gave to some of the
Southeast Asian countries
on dairy.
So, it wasn't around how do we
remove the need for New Zealand
dairy. It was how do we help
support local production at the
same time, while recognising
the role of New Zealand in there.
So, New Zealand's got a pretty
good reputation globally
on working with others, and
EMPAT in particular, if I can
call them out, they're an
exceptionally good job
of connecting in in a non-
competitive way.
And we've had a lot of
experience working overseas
with people, but we haven't
run into any, at least from a
science perspective, any
challenges on meeting any of
those obligations. And we always
sort of partner alongside the
New Zealand companies to make
sure we're not in conflict.
We wouldn't go chasing revenue
that isn't aligned with the
best interests of New Zealand.
Ruben Dootson.
Thank you, and thank you for
the apples. We always like
red things.
Change the colour.
Yeah. Blue one.
Blue one.
And can it be noted that the
majority here did?
But coming back to you
talked in the beginning about
flexibility, and flexibility
is sometimes easier when you
have certainty around the
parameters. So there was a
review into copyright,
updating our copyright
legislation that's stalled
somewhat, but what would be
what are the top priorities
for you that we should be
looking at in that space?
Yeah, we don't do a lot of
copyright per se in our space.
We'd probably do more in
trademark connections.
So to give you an example,
Envy as an Apple has a
plant variety right that at
some stage will expire,
but the brand won't.
And so actually having that
protection of the brand when
people go, oh, this is an
Envy Apple. It's grown a
certain way. It tastes a
certain way. I know the
quality of it because it's
what I've been bought and
someone else has to go, hey,
here's our Apple that's
really similar to Envy.
It's a copy, but it's not.
And I've got to call it
Ruben's Apples or whatever it
is. It doesn't have that
same cut through.
And so that's one of the
things we've been working
alongside a lot of our
customers and partners on
is how we support that whole
end to end value chain
of the brand as well as
the product. So that's
everything. We're quite
fortunate as an organization
where we're one of the few
in the world certainly of our
scale that goes from kind of
pre-farm gate right through
to in market. So we
support growing offshore.
We do a lot of work on
quality, on productivity,
on work through supply
chain, on pest and
pathogen management
including in some different
countries as things are
growing around the world.
And that's all about that
brand reputation.
Yeah. So I can add
to that just one more
point. I think also
important to us with across
all these types of
intellectual property,
trademarks, copyright,
PVRs, patients is
syncing up with
international legislation.
Where it really gets sticky
for us because we export so
much actually having those
you know, patent laws or
PVR laws and sync with each
other is very, very important
because we have to
we have to not only deal
with the laws that are here
but make sure that
that our products actually
comply and with the laws
in the markets we're selling
to because that's the way
that intellectual property works.
So that's really, really
important. So the more that
you know this group can
help synchronize those
intellectual property laws
the better. And when we fall
behind or out of sync as we
were with the PVR legislation
we were behind getting it
back on in line.
And it's really important
for us in our products.
Yeah.
Okay.
Go to Dr. Vanessa Venig.
Thank you very much.
So previously when we've
had you for
review briefings and
other things we've
discussed the role of AI
and science.
Do you see any challenges
in terms of intellectual
property within
the work streams that
you have around intellectual property?
We should.
Because hello.
Hello.
I know, yeah.
That's why I threw it at you.
More apples.
We were fortunate enough
to be shortlisted on the
recent artificial
intelligence hunt for a
provider for an AI platform
to New Zealand.
So we're very proud around that.
I think AI is always
going to be a double-edged sword
and it's going to supercharge
a lot of our research.
It's going to give us insights,
obviously, with all the data
being able to be fed into that
that we'd never had before.
But at the same time,
it does cause issues,
especially if we're sharing
data locally, internationally.
There's the leakage of,
you know, potential
for leakage of information
that might not be appropriate
of personal, commercial,
whatever.
So absolutely.
I think we're all slowly
kind of moving through this
with our eyes fully open
in terms of what the
opportunities are as well as
what the pitfalls might be.
Yeah, and I think the opportunity
for it to speed up things
is probably real.
The one that maybe you didn't
specifically ask,
but the one we're probably
keeping more of an eye on
is gene technology
around the world.
So that's the one that we
really do risk in New Zealand
falling behind on.
Yeah.
Thank you.
A pretty quick final form.
I don't know,
he leaps a very quick pause.
Oh, right.
We...
Bring us home.
So fast.
Look, it's a question about,
I would like us to
say something sensible
when we report on
to the House on this topic
of food systems
thinking not about
your export markets
but in the domestic market
here in New Zealand.
The role of intellectual
property in our food system.
What is your restriction on
whether it's resulting
in New Zealanders having
fresh, healthy kai
that they can afford?
Yeah, we can probably
only answer from a science
perspective.
So from our perspective,
we want to see people
having fresh, healthy food.
And I think that's one of the
things that New Zealand
does exceptionally well.
Whether it's affordable or not,
that I guess the role we play
in that is
how do we increase productivity?
How do we reduce loss?
How do we get more
out of a hectare of land
that doesn't create more damage
to the land as part of that?
So that's really where we focus
but we don't do the pricing.
We don't do any of that.
We spend a lot of time really
in that background of
how do we make it more affordable?
How do we use less chemicals?
How do we protect from pest and pathogens?
How much are we doing?
Yeah.
So we will...
Huge.
That's a big part of our work.
Yeah.
We can decide if we want to send
some written questions later on.
So we are running out of time.
I was really tempted to say that
why this app is not read all
through but after we've been
squished in one moment.
There's a good reason for that.
I was hoping someone would ask
because if they read all the way
through they don't quite
taste the same.
So the infosign is well good
for you.
You can also create some other
things.
So that's a good balance.
Just has to be mature.
Great.
Thank you so much to all of you
for your time.
And for answering these questions.
Thank you.
Always enjoy this.